[exciting opening theme music plays]
[Rumina] Baki and I headed to his house.
It was so weird.
Even though we were walking
through a residential area,
there was enough graffiti
to put a public bathroom to shame.
But when I looked closer
and actually read what was written,
I realized that most of it
was insults directed at Baki.
BAKI, YOU BASTARD
There's so much graffiti on everything.
The guys who did this
aren't actually able to fight against me,
so instead they fight me with their words.
[Rumina] None of it
seemed to bother him at all.
They even tagged your house.
In his room,
Baki began doing some stretches.
-[Baki grunts, inhales]
-He's unbelievably flexible.
[Baki exhales]
So, uh, about what you said before…
-[Baki] Mm-hmm.
-You know?
About your shadowboxing opponent
from earlier?
Oh, yeah.
You said that Iron Michael was
basically little more than just a warm-up.
[grunts]
You're going to fight your father,
aren't you?
Well, it's all because my old man and I
can't seem to get along.
He's really strong, isn't he? Your father?
[chuckles softly]
He's the undisputed openweight champion
of all the creatures in the whole world.
Lions, tigers, elephants, killer whales…
Hell, even cancer doesn't stand a chance.
[Rumina] His father
is going to be his enemy,
but Baki actually sounds kind of impressed
when he's talking about him.
So, uh, if you're going to be
fighting your father,
you'll need to spar
against a really strong opponent.
What kind of monster
could be even stronger than Iron Michael?
-[Baki] Hey.
-Huh?
It's right down in here.
[gasps] What?!
[unsettling sting]
It's underground?
[clock ticking]
A drab, dingy,
almost completely empty room.
The only furniture:
a table sitting over by the wall.
Uh, Baki?
My old man
has accepted me as his opponent.
Apparently, he took on an African elephant
that was the size of a dinosaur.
[elephant trumpets]
[Baki] Stronger than a lion,
tiger or bear,
the largest and strongest
African elephant in the entire world.
[elephant growling]
[gasps]
So then, knowing that,
who do you suppose I oughta fight?
[both gasp]
-[whipcrack]
-[groans]
[inhales sharply]
[exhales]
Rumina, there's an opponent
that's a whole lot stronger
than any elephant.
And it's sitting
right there on that table.
[grunts uncertainly]
[whimpers]
-[gasps] Seriously?
-[hissing]
That is stronger than an elephant?
[hesitantly] Uh, but this is just…
Yeah, a praying mantis.
And that's your opponent?
It may sound unbelievable,
but when it comes to fighting,
insects are actually the best of the best.
Animals have nothin' on 'em.
You're kidding?
Not even a little bit.
First off, their strength
is in a different league.
[uncertainly] Uh, their strength?
Predators like tigers and lions
are able to drag prey
that weighs nearly 2,000 pounds.
But since they weigh about 500 pounds,
their max is
three or four times their weight.
Now, how does that compare to an insect?
Well, an insect can easily carry
seven or eight times its weight,
all the way back to its nest
without stopping.
You weigh about what, 65 pounds, Rumina?
You think you could carry a 450-pound man
from your school
all the way back to your house?
Uh, no, there's no way that I could.
[whooshes]
It's not unusual for a deer
to make a 30-foot leap.
They do it all the time.
But that's a total joke
compared to a flea or a grasshopper.
If a flea were the size of a human,
it could easily hop
over a ten-story building.
You can get a sense of it
when you pick an insect up.
They weigh a thousandth
of what a person weighs,
but despite that,
you could feel
their power in your fingertips.
If they weighed the same as us,
there's no way we would win.
If we were kicked by those legs,
or if we were held down
by those powerful front limbs,
or if we were bitten by those mandibles,
it would not end well for us.
[gasps, gulps]
And then there's the praying mantis.
[praying mantis hissing]
[Baki] He's truly a pro fighter.
Also, the praying mantis hook
is a well-known fighting form
that's been in Chinese martial arts
for centuries.
-Striking, grappling, biting…
-[crunching]
Pure ferocity.
They're top of their class
no matter what they do.
They are perfect fighters,
with few weaknesses in their offense.
And if they they weighed 200 pounds,
then they'd almost certainly prey
on African elephants.
But, it's… so small…
I'll make it bigger.
How are you gonna do that?
I'll use this and this.
I was able to summon Iron Michael
all the way from America,
and have him appear
right next to the Tama River
so I could spar against him.
[gasps]
[Baki] Iron Michael
isn't even alive anymore.
-[dramatic sting]
-I brought him back.
[whooshing, humming]
So it'll be easy to create a match
with a 200-pound praying mantis.
[sounds fade]
[gasps]
[Baki grunts]
[hisses]
-[grunts]
-[power whooshes]
That move!
That's the kick
that defeated Iron Michael!
-[thud]
-[grunts]
[groans, gasps]
[heavy metal music plays]
Baki looks so tense.
But why?
He's fighting a praying mantis
that only exists in his mind.
Something he created himself.
[Baki gasps]
Hang on, he's tipping back
and looking farther up.
[gasping]
-What kind of monster did he manifest?
-[hissing]
[loud crash]
[grunting]
[gasps]
[grunts uncertainly]
It's just like he said.
A 200-pound praying mantis
is way stronger
than a 450-pound tiger or lion.
-[exciting heavy metal plays]
-[grunts]
[gasps] Huh?
[straining]
[gasps]
[Baki straining]
[Rumina] Is it-- Is it possible?
Can it be?
-[straining]
-But did he?
Did he actually get caught
by his own manifestation?
[straining]
-[grunts]
-[Rumina] He connected!
He landed a clean hit to its chin.
-[whooshing]
-[screams]
[grunts]
-[rubble clatters]
-[gasps]
[Baki groans] Ow.
[Rimuna] If he just made
the mantis smaller,
then he'd be able to win, no problem.
I mean, he could've
just stomped on it by now.
He's so strict with himself.
[groaning]
-[gasps]
-[thud]
[Rumina] No ordinary martial art
will work against a giant praying mantis.
So Baki's movements
began to turn into something
unlike any fighting technique.
[hands whooshing]
He kept on fighting
in that dingy, little room.
[exhales sharply]
He kept attacking and defending
against an enemy that didn't even exist.
And I kept watching,
so I wouldn't miss a single thing.
-[whooshing]
-I followed Baki's movements.
But it was hard to know
what was really going on.
I watched…
But then…
[loud ding]
Just like when you see a phone holster
and instinctively know
what it's supposed to hold,
or when you see a book cover
and right away
know what size book it's for.
Or when you see half of a pendant
and can immediately imagine
what its other half looks like.
I could see it.
-[grunting]
-[strikes landing]
[Rumina] Little by little,
-down there in that dingy, empty room…
-[exciting music playing]
…something that wasn't there
slowly, but surely…
[hissing]
eventually…
[gasps] I could see it!
[whooshing]
What Baki had created was an insect
that weighed over 200 pounds!
After finally seeing it,
I almost wanted to cry
out of sheer despair
for what he'd been fighting.
But Baki kept facing off against it,
confronting it head-on.
[elephant trumpets]
[Rumina] Baki's father,
said to be the strongest man in the world,
had apparently defeated
an African elephant
the size of a dinosaur.
[growling]
But still, no matter how strong
an African elephant might be,
its only real advantage is in its size.
But if it were as small as an insect,
its strength would be no better than…
[dramatic sting]
…a caterpillar's.
Then practically out of nowhere…
-[whooshing]
-[Baki grunts]
…came Baki's finely honed kick.
The speed, the timing,
it connected perfectly!
I expected a knockout.
-[whoosh]
-[Baki grunts]
[groans]
[Baki] Of course.
-[gasps]
-[rubble clatters]
[Baki] I had a bad feeling
and I was right.
It's as if there's no brain
inside the praying mantis's head at all.
[whoosh, thud]
So where a human would get a concussion,
nothing happens to the mantis.
Attacking its head won't do anything.
[strike whooshes]
[Baki grunts]
[Rumina] You got it!
Whatever you do, don't let go!
[Baki] What the…
Wait.
It sees me.
It can see me even when I'm behind it!
[groans] Oh!
Plus, it is, like, super agile.
[straining]
[grunts] It's trying to eat me!
[Baki grunts]
[ominous heavy metal music playing]
[straining] It's stronger than I thought.
[grunts loudly]
[Rumina] Trying to overpower an insect
with strength alone
is completely pointless.
-[Baki straining]
-[praying mantis hissing]
-[grunts]
-[loud thud]
[Baki] It doesn't matter…
who my opponent is.
Whether I'm facing
a human, a beast, or an insect…
[spits]
…the approach is the same.
I know what I'm capable of.
[grunts]
I'll stay focused.
And fight like I always do!
[grunts]
This thing is hard as metal!
But I can bend metal.
Whoa!
Baki, look out!
[grunts] It doesn't have a weakness.
But I know my strengths.
It's super agile,
but so am I!
[crunching thud]
[Rumina] He managed to grab it.
He's pinned the praying mantis's legs
in a hold.
Break it!
-[strains, yells]
-[leg crunches]
[Baki yelps]
[yelling] Whoa!
[yells]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[Baki coughs, groans]
[groaning] Okay, that didn't work.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Rumina] This is ridiculous.
I don't get
why he has to take it this far.
No matter how effective
a training exercise might be
to imagine your strongest opponent,
the truth is
you're not actually fighting anything.
Baki is in an empty basement
fighting against an illusion
that was conjured up
by his own imagination.
This isn't a real match or competition.
He doesn't have to do this.
Baki, look, that's enough!
You've done enough, you hear?
-[Baki wheezing]
-You don't need to take it this far!
Stop it, Baki! This is insane.
[grunts]
[Rumina] He's not listening anymore.
-What I'm saying doesn't matter.
-[high-pitched ding]
He's lost in the illusion
of the praying mantis.
[praying mantis hissing]
[Rumina] It's to the point
where he can even feel its body heat.
[grunts]
[Baki] Okay.
With eyes like that,
it doesn't have
a blind spot that I can exploit.
So it doesn't really matter
what direction it might be facing.
Because it always has
the whole room in its field of view.
And that means
there's absolutely no place
in here for me to run.
[dramatic sting]
Wait a minute.
I'm not gonna run away
when I fight that bastard.
So there's no way I'm gonna run in here.
[chuckles] No.
No way in hell!
[whooshes, thuds]
[praying mantis snarling]
[Rumina gasps]
[gasps]
Hey, whoa, whoa, wait a minute,
wait a minute, just-- just think.
I felt something soft
under its neck just now.
It was when I used
the praying mantis hook.
Hmm.
[dramatic sting]
All right then, let's give it another try.
[hissing]
[narrator] Once upon a time in China…
[traditional Chinese music playing]
…there was a monk who was named Shuu Amon.
[bird chirping]
[gasps] What's that?
[narrator] One day, in the forest,
he saw something incredible.
[gasps]
A fight between a bird and an insect?
[narrator] It was a sparrow
versus a praying mantis.
Any way you look at this,
the sparrow is going to win this fight.
-[sparrow chirping frantically]
-Huh?
What?
What's this? But how?
Against all Amon's expectations,
it was the praying mantis
that won the battle.
To think that this insect
would win against a bird.
This?
Or maybe this?
[narrator] Amon, struck to his core
by the mantis's strength,
completely dedicated himself to the study
of the praying mantis's way of fighting.
And eventually,
he managed to create
a style of martial art
that came to be called
"praying mantis hook."
PRAYING MANTIS HOOK
[Rumina] Baki's stance has changed.
Rather than taking on
a more traditional fighting stance,
it looks like he's actually imitating
the praying mantis's movements.
The world of martial arts is savage.
It revolves around
a special way of thinking
and poses a question that is
not often asked in any other sport.
And that question is,
"Whose technique is stronger?"
I mean, you'd never see a baseball player
going up against a basketball player.
But it's different in martial arts.
Not only can you fight
people who practice the same martial art,
you can also fight
those who practice a different one.
You might even fight
other kinds of creatures.
There's no end to what fighters do
in order to seek
the limits of human strength.
They'll not only fight any living being,
but even imaginary ones too.
Baki tried every different fighting style
against the praying mantis,
but in the end,
he realized he should simply use
the same one as his opponent.
-[hisses]
-[Baki grunts]
[thuds, crunches]
[oozing]
-[Baki grunts]
-[thuds]
[gasps]
[whooshes]
-[thuds]
-[Baki grunts]
-[trilling]
-[whimpering]
Huh?
It's getting tired.
You see that, Rumina?
These guys have
no natural enemies in the insect world.
[Rumina] It's getting
closer to the end now.
So they've never experienced
an attack like that one before.
Their offense may be powerful,
but their defense
is completely inadequate.
-Now get out of the way.
-[intense music building]
[Rumina gasping]
Baki's gonna win.
[crashes]
[Rumina] That move…
[Baki grunts]
[exhales] I can see it now.
This isn't a perfect fighter
with an impenetrable defense.
Just like with every fighter,
there are weaknesses.
And those weaknesses
I can take advantage of.
My body…
[grunts]
…has acclimated to this fight.
I've got this!
[exciting music playing]
I'm learning all the ways
to squash this bug.
[kicks landing]
[Rumina] Something's changed in Baki.
I can see it in his face.
It's way more relaxed.
[thuds]
His movements are somehow
more certain than they were before.
This is no longer a fight
between a praying mantis and mantis style.
It's become something entirely different.
[Baki grunts]
[dramatic sting]
It's like watching
a bird hunting its prey.
The praying mantis
that had been so aggressive
is now running away.
While Baki looks more and more composed.
And his face, which had been
looking upward full of fear,
is instead now
looking down with confidence.
[Baki] So, you see,
if you're able to find the weak spots,
200 pounds makes no difference at all.
[wings fluttering]
[Rumina gasps]
[high-pitched whine fading]
[Rumina] It disappeared!
-[exciting music playing]
-And the real one oughta be…
Ah, there you are.
-[Baki grunting]
-[fingers whooshing]
You got it?
[Rumina] That was…
a stunning victory for Baki!
[closing theme music plays]
Subtitle translation by: